{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\f0\fs36\lang9  DBMS Assignment-2 26/08/2025 Amar-05 & Dilraj-18\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs28\par
1. Write an SQL query to fetch \ldblquote FIRST_NAME\rdblquote  FROM Worker table \par
using the alias name as <WORKER_NAME>.\par
\par
SELECT first_name "Worker_Name"\par
FROM worker;\par
\par
 2. Write an SQL query to fetch \ldblquote FIRST_NAME\rdblquote  FROM Worker table in \par
upper case.\par
\par
SELECT  UPPER(first_name)\par
FROM worker;\par
\par
 3. Write an SQL query to fetch unique values of DEPARTMENT FROM \par
Worker table.\par
\par
SELECT DISTINCT(DEPARTMENT)\par
FROM worker;\par
\par
 4. Write an SQL query to print the first three characters of FIRST_NAME FROM Worker table.\par
\par
SELECT SUBSTRING(first_name,1,3) "First three"\par
FROM worker;\par
\par
 5. Write an SQL query to find the position of the alphabet (\lquote a\rquote ) in the \par
first name column \lquote Amitabh\rquote  FROM Worker table.\par
Ans:-\par
 \tab SELECT  INSTR(lower(first_name ), 'a')'occurances of a'\par
 \tab FROM  worker;\par
\par
 6. Write an SQL query to print the FIRST_NAME , departmentname \par
FROM Worker table separated by white space.\par
Ans:-\par
\tab SELECT  CONCAT(first_name , " " , department)\par
\tab FROM  worker;\par
\par
 7. Write an SQL query to print the DEPARTMENT FROM Worker table \par
after removing white spaces FROM the left side.\par
Ans:-\par
\tab SELECT  LTRIM(department)\par
\tab FROM worker;\par
\par
8. Write an SQL query that fetches the unique values of DEPARTMENT \par
FROM Worker table and prints its length.\par
Ans:- \par
\tab SELECT  DISTINCT(department), LENGTH(department) length\par
\tab FROM  worker;\par
 \par
 9. Write an SQL query to print the FIRST_NAME FROM Worker table \par
after replacing \lquote a\rquote  with \lquote A\rquote .\par
Ans:- :- \par
\tab SELECT  REPLACE(first_name, 'a', 'A') \par
\tab FROM worker;\par
\par
 10. Write an SQL query to print the FIRST_NAME and LAST_NAME \par
FROM Worker table into a single column COMPLETE_NAME. A space \par
char should separate them.\par
Ans:-\par
\tab SELECT  CONCAT(first_name,' ', last_name) COMPLETE_NAME\par
\tab FROM worker;\par
\par
 11. Write an SQL query to print all Worker details FROM the Worker \par
table order by FIRST_NAME Ascending.\par
Ans:- \par
\tab SELECT *\par
\tab FROM worker\par
\tab ORDER BY first_name;\par
 12. Write an SQL query to print all Worker details FROM the Worker \par
table order by FIRST_NAME Ascending and DEPARTMENT \par
Descending.\par
Ans:-\par
\tab SELECT * \par
\tab FROM worker\par
\tab ORDER BY first_name asc , department desc;\par
\par
 13. Write an SQL query to print details for Workers with the first \par
name as \ldblquote Vipul\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Satish\rdblquote  FROM Worker table.\par
Ans:- \par
\tab SELECT  *\par
\tab FROM worker\par
\tab WHERE first_name IN ('Vipul','Satish');\par
 14. Write an SQL query to print details of workers excluding first \par
names, \ldblquote Vipul\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Satish\rdblquote  FROM Worker table.\par
Ans:-\par
\tab SELECT  *\par
\tab FROM worker\par
\tab WHERE first_name NOT IN ('Vipul','Satish');\par
 15. Write an SQL query to print details of Workers with \par
DEPARTMENT name as \ldblquote Admin\rdblquote .\par
Ans:-\par
\tab SELECT *\par
\tab FROM worker\par
\tab WHERE department = 'Admin';\par
 \par
 16. Write an SQL query to print details of the Workers whose \par
FIRST_NAME contains \lquote a\rquote .\par
Ans:-\par
\tab SELECT *\par
\tab FROM Worker\par
\tab WHERE INSTR(FIRST_NAME, 'a') > 0;\par
\fs36 OR\par
\fs28\tab SELECT *\par
\tab FROM Worker\par
\tab WHERE FIRST_NAME LIKE '%a%';\par
\tab\par
 17. Write an SQL query to print details of the Workers whose \par
FIRST_NAME ends with \lquote a\rquote .\par
Ans:-\par
\tab SELECT *\par
\tab FROM worker\par
\tab WHERE first_name LIKE '%a';\par
OR\par
\tab SELECT *\par
\tab FROM worker\par
\tab WHERE first_name REGEXP 'a$';\par
\par
 18. Write an SQL query to print details of the Workers whose \par
FIRST_NAME ends with \lquote h\rquote  and contains six alphabets.\par
Ans:-\par
\tab SELECT *\par
\tab FROM worker\par
\tab WHERE first_name LIKE '%h' AND LENGTH (first_name)=6;\par
\par
 19. Write an SQL query to print details of the Workers whose \par
SALARY lies between 100000 and 500000.\par
Ans:-\par
\tab SELECT *\par
\tab FROM worker\par
\tab WHERE salary BETWEEN 100000 AND 500000;\par
\par
 20. Write an SQL query to print details of the Workers who have \par
joined in Feb\rquote 2014.\par
Ans:-\par
\tab SELECT *\par
\tab FROM worker\par
\tab WHERE MONTH(joining_date)=2 AND YEAR(joining_date)=2014;\par
OR \par
\tab SELECT *\par
\tab FROM worker\par
\tab WHERE joining_date BETWEEN '2014-02-01' AND '2014-02-28';\par
\par
 21. Write an SQL query to fetch the count of employees working in \par
the department \lquote Admin\rquote .\par
Ans:-\par
\tab SELECT COUNT(*) 'Total Employees'\par
\tab FROM worker \par
\tab WHERE department ='Admin';\par
\par
 22. Write an SQL query to fetch worker names with salaries >= 50000 \par
and <= 100000.\par
Ans:-\par
\tab SELECT *\par
\tab FROM worker\par
\tab WHERE salary BETWEEN 50000 AND 100000;\par
 23. Write an SQL query to fetch the no. of workers for each \par
department in the descending order.\par
Ans:-\par
\tab SELECT department,COUNT(*)\par
\tab FROM worker\par
\tab GROUP BY department\par
\tab ORDER BY department desc;\par
\par
\par
 24. Write an SQL query to print details of the Workers who are also \par
Managers.\par
Ans:-\par
\tab SELECT e.empno,e.ename,e.job,e.mgr FROM emp e, emp m WHERE e.empno = m.mgr;\par
\par
25. Write an SQL query to fetch duplicate records having matching \par
data in some fields of a table.\par
 \par
 26. Write an SQL query to show only odd rows FROM a table.\par
Ans:- :-  select * from worker where worker_id%2!=0;\par
\par
 27. Write an SQL query to show only even rows FROM a table.\par
 Ans:-\par
\tab SELECT * from worker \par
\tab WHERE worker_id%2=0;\par
\par
 28. Write an SQL query to clone a new table FROM another table.\par
Ans:-\par

\pard\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 CREATE table mytable \par
(SELECT * FROM emp WHERE 1=2);\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
 29. Write an SQL query to fetch intersecting records of two tables.\par
Ans:-\par
\tab SELECT * FROM emp e , dept d \par
\tab WHERE d.deptno=e.deptno;\par
\par
 30. Write an SQL query to show records FROM one table that another \par
table does not have.\par
Ans:-\par

\pard\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 SELECT e.*\par
FROM emp e\par
LEFT OUTER JOIN dept d ON e.DEPTNO = d.DEPTNO\par
WHERE d.DEPTNO IS NULL;\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
 31. Write an SQL query to show the current date and time.\par
Ans:-\par
\tab SELECT now();\par
\par
 32. Write an SQL query to show the top n (say 10) records of a table.\par
Ans:-\par
\tab SELECT * FROM emp \par
\tab limit 10;\par
\par
 33. Write an SQL query to determine the nth (say n=5) highest salary \par
FROM a table.\par
Ans:- :-\par
\tab SELECT ename, deptno,sal FROM emp \par
\tab ORDER BYsal desc limit 4,1; \par
\par
 34. Write an SQL query to determine the 5th highest salary without \par
using TOP or limit method.\par
Ans:-\par

\pard\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 SELECT \par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
 35. Write an SQL query to fetch the list of employees with the same \par
salary.\par
Ans:-\par
\tab SELECT DISTINCT e.EMPNO, e.ENAME, e.JOB, e.SAL,  \tab e.DEPTNO\par
\tab FROM emp e\par
\tab INNER JOIN emp m ON e.SAL = m.SAL AND e.EMPNO != \tab m.EMPNO\par
\tab ORDER BY e.SAL, e.EMPNO;\par
\tab OR\par
\tab SELECT e.*, m.* FROM emp e join emp m on e.sal=m.sal and \par
\tab e.empno<m.empno;\par
\par
 36. Write an SQL query to show the second highest salary FROM a \par
table.\par
Ans:- \par
\tab SELECT * FROM emp order by sal desc limit 1,1;\par
\par
 37. Write an SQL query to show one row twice in results FROM a table.\par
Ans:-\par
\tab SELECT * FROM EMP\par
\tab WHERE empno = 7369\par
\tab union all\par
\tab SELECT * FROM EMP\par
\tab WHERE empno = 7369;\par
\par
 38. Write an SQL query to fetch intersecting records of two tables.\par
Ans:-\par
\tab SELECT * FROM emp e , dept d \par
\tab WHERE d.deptno=e.deptno;\par
\par
 39. Write an SQL query to fetch the first 50% records FROM a table.\par
Ans:-\par
\tab select * from worker where worker_id < (select count(*) from \tab worker)/2; \par
\par
 40. Write an SQL query to fetch the departments that have less than \par
five people in it.\par
Ans:-\par

\pard\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 SELECT DEPTNO, COUNT(*) AS emp_count\par
FROM emp\par
GROUP BY DEPTNO\par
HAVING COUNT(*) < 5;\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1  \par
 41. Write an SQL query to show all departments along with the \par
number of people in there department.\par
Ans:-SELECT e.deptno, d.dname, count(e.deptno) total FROM emp e, dept d\par
\tab WHERE e.deptno = d.deptno and total <5\par
\tab group by e.deptno,d.dname\par
\tab order by deptno;\par
\tab OR\par
 \tab SELECT e.deptno, d.dname, count(e.deptno) FROM emp e left outer  \tab join  \tab dept d on e.deptno = d.deptno\par
\tab group by e.deptno,d.dname\par
\tab union\par
\tab SELECT e.deptno, d.dname, count(e.deptno) FROM emp e right \tab outer join  \tab dept d on e.deptno = d.deptno\par
\tab group by e.deptno,d.dname\par
\tab order by deptno;\par
\par
 42. Write an SQL query to show the last record FROM a table.\par
Ans:- \par
SELECT * FROM emp order by empno desc limit 1;\par
\par
 43. Write an SQL query to fetch the first row of a table.\par
Ans:-\par
SELECT * FROM emp limit 1;\par
\par
 44. Write an SQL query to fetch the last five records FROM a table.\par
Ans:-\par
SELECT * FROM emp order by empno desc limit 5;\par
\par
 45. Write an SQL query to print the name of employees having the \par
highest salary in each department.\par
Ans:-\par
SELECT empno, ename, sal salary, deptno FROM emp\par
WHERE sal in (SELECT max(sal) FROM emp group by  deptno);\par
\par
 46. Write an SQL query to fetch three max salaries FROM a table.\par
Ans:-\par
SELECT ename, deptno,sal FROM emp order by sal desc limit 3; \par
\par
 47. Write an SQL query to fetch three min salaries FROM a table.\par
Ans:-\par
SELECT ename, deptno,sal FROM emp order by sal  limit 3; \par
 48. Write an SQL query to fetch nth max salaries FROM a table.\par
SELECT ename, deptno,sal FROM emp order by sal desc  limit 4,1; \par
\par
 49. Write an SQL query to fetch departments along with the total \par
salaries paid for each of them.\par
Ans:- \par
SELECT  sum(sal),e.deptno, dname FROM emp e, dept d\par
WHERE e.deptno = d.deptno\par
group by e.deptno, dname\par
order by e.deptno ;\par
OR\par
SELECT  sum(sal),e.deptno, dname FROM emp e left outer join dept d\par
on e.deptno = d.deptno group by e.deptno,dname\par
union\par
SELECT  sum(sal),e.deptno, dname FROM emp e right outer join dept d\par
on e.deptno = d.deptno\par
group by e.deptno, dname\par
order by deptno;\par
\par
50. Write an SQL query to fetch the names of workers who earn the \par
highest salary.\par
Ans:-\par
\tab SELECT sal, ename, deptno FROM emp \par
\tab ORDER BY SAL DESC limit 4;\par
}
 